---
anchor_name: Intended Audience Stakeholders
name: Intended Audience Stakeholders
title: Intended Audience Stakeholders
---

Intended Audience Stakeholders[](#Intended Audience Stakeholders)
=================================================================

The problem statement detailed in Section 1.1 identifies PSCR's unique
role to provide cybersecurity guidance to public safety concerning the
use of mobile apps. To ensure we are effectively formulating and
communicating this guidance, it is imperative to understand *who* we
expect this guidance to be for, and *how* they will use it. During the
formulation of this project, we identified three core Audience
Stakeholders: public safety users, public safety researchers, and mobile
app developers/mobile application vetting tools. The remainder of this
section explores each of these stakeholder groups.

Public Safety Users
-------------------

Public safety users are the primary stakeholder for this work.
Specifically, those within public safety who will choose which apps
should be allowed operate on devices used by first responders. NIST [SP
800-163](https://csrc.nist.gov/news/2019/nist-publishes-sp-800-163-rev-1)
describes a mobile app vetting process through which an organization can
approve or reject the use of a mobile app. A key step in this process is
the assessment of the application against pertinent cybersecurity
requirements. In the case of public safety, these organization
requirements can come from many potential sources:

-   Policies established by the organizations themselves (i.e.Â the state
    police, county fire departments, etc.)

-   Policies managed through inter-organization agreements, for example
    those made between neighboring counties

-   Policies required by service and data providers, for example those
    required by Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS)

-   Best practices for cybersecurity as advocated by Federal regulation
    or non-profit organizations.

The guidance provided by PSCR should enable public safety to choose apps
while weighing the risk involved with deploying and using them. This
means being able to evaluate apps for their [*potential adverse impacts
to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or
reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations,
and the Nation*](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/risk). This
requires evaluating mobile apps, the information they utilize, and the
functions they provide in terms of these impacts.

PSCR Researchers
----------------

When this project was first conceived, we identified an interesting
overlap between how we were answering the concerns of our primary
audience and that of a related audience: researchers here at PSCR.
Namely, we found ourselves asking the same questions as other research
efforts here in PSCR. The central question being: "what are the use
cases surrounding the technology that is the focus of my research?" From
this question, tangential questions naturally follow:

-   Who are the actors involved and how do I define them?

-   What resources are they using and what do I need to know about those
    resources?

-   What requirements are involved in terms of usability, criticality,
    and cybersecurity?

-   How does my research domain mesh with other areas of interest?

While the answer to each of these questions differs on what PSCR
portfolio your research falls in, we identified a potential area of
overlapping benefit. If there were a common repository of use cases for
PSCR researchers to leverage, we could help streamline, augment, and
unify research efforts within the division.

Mobile Application Developers and Mobile Application Vetting Tools
------------------------------------------------------------------

The third and final stakeholder we identified is made of up two distinct
but related groups. The first group are the developers who will make the
mobile app solutions for public safety mobile devices. The second are
the tools used in the mobile app vetting space to automate the
identification of mobile app vulnerabilities. The reason we consider
these groups together as single stakeholder is because of the symbiotic
relationship they share with public safety. In order to better fulfill
public safety's needs app developers must understand public safety's
domain specific cybersecurity requirements. Likewise, mobile app vetting
tools require domain knowledge to tailor their testing and reporting to
fit public safety's needs.

<img src="./media/file1.png" class="report_figure" />
