---
anchor_name: Conclusions
name: Conclusions
title: Conclusions
---

Conclusions[](#Conclusions)
===========================

Throughout this project, we were able to gather much useful information
about how to structure public safety use cases and how we can translate
the use cases into cybersecurity guidance. However, there is still a lot
of work to be done to further develop the idea. During the project, we
were able to share our ideas, test data, and prototype tools with
various stakeholders. As with most projects, we had many stretch goals
and ideas we did not have the time to fully realize. We will close out
this discussion by summarizing the feedback we got and describing
possible future work.

Building a Working Group
------------------------

The first premise we had when planning this project was acknowledging
that public safety's mission is diverse, complex, and varied depending
on what organizations are at play. As such, instead of taking the
position that we would mandate data requirements to public safety, we
opted to try and describe a process that could be taken up by those with
the requisite domain knowledge. While we feel we have made a good start,
it would be maximally beneficial for us to allow public safety itself to
weigh in on what we have done so far, and to begin the real process of
building a collection of use cases.

Use Case Model
--------------

### Information Types and Security Classification

As mentioned in the model's definition, an information type really
consists of three parts: a name, a description, and a CIA security
classification. We came to realize this is limiting in the following
ways:

1.  Having a flat description prevented us from linking information
    types borrowed from other structures sources
    (<a href="https://www.niem.gov/" class="external">NIEM Information Model</a>).

2.  How do you account for types with the same or similar sounding
    names?

3.  How do you account for information types whose security
    classification differs given the context? For example, some data may
    have higher ratings during an incident, but lower after the fact.

### Adding Decision Points

One piece of feedback we received was that use cases do not adequately
account for how situations evolve over time. Specifically, they cannot
capture the key inflection points that inform the actions of a first
responder in a situation. The input to these decision points would be
various *information types* whose actions would dictate the actions of a
responder:

<img src="./media/file5.png" class="report_figure" />

While we felt including this concept could be a powerful augmentation to
our model, we were unsure how to properly capture it.

Needed Atlas Improvements
-------------------------

The Atlas tool itself is not feature complete and needs a lot of updates
in order to be a useful tool for researchers and public safety alike.
However, it captures a lot of what we were trying to achieve in terms of
organization and visual display. That said, during the project, we
identified a few reach goals/needed improvements we feel the tool would
benefit from. We have listed them here for anyone looking to pick up the
code base for further development.

-   **Improved Searching --** as the tool was designed with scale in
    mind, improved keyword/scoped searching is necessary.

-   **Compositional Use Cases** **--** being able to combine multiple
    use cases in order to make one larger use case. This would allow
    organizations to mix and match use cases from other users to better
    conform to their own situations.

-   **Use Case/Data Export** **--** Currently the data is stuck inside
    our document-oriented data store. While the database can export
    files in serialized JSON, a more readable or defined output
    mechanism could help users share data.

-   **Report Generation --** Ultimately, we envisioned this tool being
    able to output reports that could incorporated into [NIST
    Risk](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-30/rev-1/final)
    assessments.

Mobile applications for public safety need to be evaluated for security
vulnerabilities while they are being built, before deployment, and while
they are being employed. Mobile application vetting services and tools
bring value to public safety by helping to evaluate mobile application
for security vulnerabilities. However, public safety has security
requirements that are unique to those traditionally focused on by
general purpose analysis tools. These security requirements are driven
by **uses** **cases** the **data types** that will pass through public
safety mobile apps.
