---
anchor_name: Introduction
name: Introduction
title: Introduction
---

Introduction[](#Introduction)
=============================

This document describes the efforts of the Public Safety Use Case & Data
Reference project. This project's main focus was to explore how to
provide meaningful cyber security guidance for public safety mobile
applications. As with most projects, its scope and goals changed over
time. The project began as an effort to better classify the information
moving through public safety-centered mobile apps from a cybersecurity
perspective. As the project grew we determined this was a subset of a
more general concept: the relationship between information and public
safety use cases. In tandem with this, the goals shifted from providing
a static reference to public safety to exploring more interactive
strategies to engage with the subject matter. The remainder of this
section describes how we defined the project's scope and what our
proposed solutions were.

Problem Statement
-----------------

*How can PSCR provide guidance on the secure use and design of mobile
apps for public safety?*

PSCR is uniquely situated to provide this feedback to public safety.
However, because public safety has not yet fully embraced mobile apps
into their missions, providing this guidance is difficult because it is
unclear how mobile apps will be used, what data they will require, and
what requirements that data will have.

The requirements of public safety are diverse and multifaceted. As
public safety incorporates more mobile technology into their mission
strategies, they will be faced with the difficult proposition of
evaluating those mobile solutions from the perspectives of usability,
interoperability, and cybersecurity. This includes, but is not limited
to, the use of more and more mobile applications (apps). The catch-22 is
that the mobile application market for public safety is bourgeoning,
meaning that many of the future must-have public safety apps have yet to
be developed. Furthermore, many non-public safety mobile apps have
been/will be adopted for use in public safety missions.

How then can PSCR provide guidance on the use and security of software
that does not yet exist?

Proposed Solution
-----------------

The answer lies in the intuition that apps are merely tools meant to aid
in accomplishing public safety *scenarios*. This of course means their
functionality is tightly connected to the scenarios that public safety
encounters. As such, we can use these scenarios as proxies for the apps
that would be used to facilitate them. Moving the target from an app to
a scenario shifts the burden from characterizing something unknown (an
app) to observing actual public safety activities, rules, regulations,
and best practices.

Relying on real world scenarios satisfied one of our major concerns:
grounding our guidance in authentic public safety activities prevents us
from simply guessing about what scenarios actually entail.

However, this still begs the question of how to bridge the gap between
the description of a public safety scenario (a traffic stop, car
accident, building fire, etc.) and meaningful cybersecurity guidance.
The first step in the [NIST Risk Management
Framework](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/risk-management-framework-(RMF)-Overview)
(RMF) involves categorizing a system and the information processed,
stored, and transmitted by that system based on an impact analysis in
terms of *risk*. **We propose using the scenario as a proxy for the
system at the center of the RMF**. The impact analysis of information
related to the scenario can therefore set us on the path toward
meaningful cybersecurity guidance and recommendation.

[NIST FIPS
199](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.199.pdf) defines
an information type as a specific category of information (e.g.,
privacy, medical, proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor
sensitive, security management), defined by an organization, or in some
instances, by a specific law, Executive Order, directive, policy, or
regulation. The relationship of an information type to the three core
cybersecurity objectives confidentiality, integrity, and availability
characterizes the impact this information type can have on risk.

Therefore, we can achieve our goal of providing cyber security guidance
for public safety mobile apps by accurately describing public safety
scenarios, the information types that are inherent to them, and
describing the impact these information types have on the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. We call this interplay
between factors a **use case**.

Document structure/remainder of document
----------------------------------------

The remainder of this document describes in more detail the structure
and usage of use case. Section 2 describes the 3 core audiences we
identified as part of our research. Section 3 details the formalization
we used to describe a public safety use case. Section 4 describes the
process we used to express scenarios found from various sources in terms
of our model. Section 5 describes a prototype web application we
designed as a proof-of-concept capture and delivery mechanism for our
use case formalization. Section 6 contains possible paths forward with
this research, including information gathered from stakeholders.
Finally, Appendix A contains a fledgling dataset of use cases structured
in the formalization described in Section 3.
